quiz1
PART I
Navigating the File System
1.  How do you move back and forth between directories? 
    
    cd , cd.. , cd ../..

2.  How do you create and delete files? 
  
    touch filename.txt, rm filename.txt

3.  How do you create and delete directories?

    mkdir name of document, rmdir name of document

4.  How can I see exactly where I am within the filesystem?

    pwd-prints working directory

5.  How can I see the files and directories within the current directory that I am in?

    ls- list out contents of the directory you are in

Git
1.  How do you let git know you want to track changes made in a directory? 

    git status - for changes that have not been commited

    git log - for changes that have been commited

2.  How do you tell git that you like the work you’ve done and want it to be a part of a chunk of work to be saved?

    git add filename or .

3.  How do you tell git you want to save a chunk of work?

    git commit -m "message"

4.  How do you tell git where to push your local changes up to a online repository?

    a. Log on to git hub create a repository.
    b. copy and paste the url link from git hub on to your terminal (for location)
    c. git push

5.  How can you safely work on a different version of your current project?

    git branch (name of branch) - allows you to work on current project (main branch) on a different branch.

    git checkout - lets you go back and forth from different branches you want to work on.

6.  How can you make that different version become a part of your main version

    git merge

7.  How do I move between versions of my project?

    git checkout

8.  How can I go back to previous chunks of work that I’ve created and work from that point in time?

    git checkout main branch or any other branch you created

    git revert - allows you to drop contents and move forward.

    git reset - takes you back to begining commit.

9.  Let’s say I wrote a bad message for a commit. How could I change it? 

    git amend 

    git revert 

    git reset


PART II
Python
1.  How do I run my code from the terminal?

    python filename.py

2.  What can I use to reference a value later in my code?

    variable

3.  How can I make my program display text or some value in my terminal?

    print(text)

4.  How can I make my code make decisions on which code to execute?

    you can make code make decisions based on the the way you store data values.
        ex. dictionary, list, strings. 
    
    you can also make your code make decisions by the functions you use. 
        ex. print(), Input, math functions

5.  How can I repeat blocks of code based on conditions?

    while loops 


6.  Why is it critical to ensure that our conditions eventually become false when repeating blocks of code?

    to produce a boolean value

7.  What are sequences and what are the differences between them?

    data types that store multiple values.

        a. list[]- are modifiable 
        b. tuple()- are not modifiable
        c. range - are list of numeric values 

8.  How do I access a value within the various types of sequences?

    a. use index to identify single values. 
    b. values always start at 0 
    c. the equation should read- variable = list_name[index number ]


9.  What is an index when talking about sequences?

    a way pyhton uses to store values by starting form 0 

10. What is the index of the first value within a sequence?

    0

11. How can I add or remove a value from a sequence?

    ammend - add 

    pop - remove
12. What is the index of the last value within a sequence?

    -1

13. How can I get the length of a sequence?

    len() function tells you how many items are in a sequence
        ex. while index < len(list_name)

14. What can I use to reference and use a block of code later in my code?

    def function:
        def name(parameters):
            print(arguments)

15. What is DRY? 

    Don't repeat yourself

16. What is Scope? Provide an example.

    scope is a way to single out a variable in a fumction or sequence.  

17. What is the difference between parameters and arguments?

    parameters are set limitations.

    arguments are telling the code what to do.

18. What is recursion?

    a function that repeats itself.  

19. How can you return a value from a function?

    You can use the return statement to make your functions send Python objects back to the original function.

20. Describe a dictionary. How and why would it be useful?

    dictionary is a data type that provides a key and a value for the key. ex. {"key":"value"}

21. How can you remove a value from a dictionary?

    same way we can remove value from a sequence. 
        ex. pop()

22. How can you access and change values within a dictionary?

    you can useaccess the items in a dictionary by reffering to its key name. 

    also depends if value inside dictionary is list, or tuple. 

23. What data types can a sequence hold?

    list, strings, dictionary, and floats.

24. What data types can a dictionary hold?

    list, strings, floats and booleans

25. How can you iterate through a dictionary?

    for loops

26. What is object oriented programming?

    method of structuring a program by bundling related properties and behaviors into individual objects.

27. Describe a class? Why are they useful?

    A way to describe an object in an outline 

28. What are class properties? How would I give a class an initial set of properties?

    class properties are what defines it.
        ex. colors, sizes, 

29. What are class methods?

    allows you to modify class

30. What is inheritence?

    allows us to define a class that inherits all the methods and properties from another class.

31.  What are the various data types? (edited) 

    list, dictionary, boolean, floats, variable, 


